---  
layout: post  
title: NaPoWriMo 2019 Day 1  
date: 2019-04-01 14:06  
  
comments: true  
categories: [poetry] 
---  
  
<p>For the last couple of years I've taken part in NaPoWriMo, where I try to write a poem every day in April. I've really enjoyed the process. It's got me back into writing and has helped produce some of my favourite poems. And some of my least favourites, but the beauty of this writing exercise is you carry on regardless. I also really enjoyed publishing them in public last year. It forced me to be accountable to myself and not skip any days, whilst also trying to make them as good as possible.</p>  


  
<p>If you want to see my attempts from 2018, I've released all of last year's poems for free as an ebook. <a href="/aprilfog/">Go check it out.</a></p>  


  
<p>So onto this year. I've written a lot more poetry this year and even performed some. Still, I would like to attempt NaPoWriMo again. The timing is not fortuitous, I'm changing jobs in the middle of April, but we will see how it goes.</p>  


  
<p>Last year I generated the title using a random word generator. Arbituary rules make everything better, so here's my personal rules for this year:</p>  


<!-- wp:list {"ordered":true} -->  
<ol><li>The length of the poem will increase depending on the date. So I will start with a one-line poem and end with a thirty-line poem</li><li>I can use a random word generator if I get stuck but it doesn't have to be the title, it can just be used for inspiration.</li><li>All poems to be published here and on <a href="http://www.twitter.com/davidralphlewis">Twitter</a> and <a href="http://www.instagram.com/davidralphlewis">Instagram.</a></li></ol>  
<!-- /wp:list -->  

  
<p> Should be fun. Here's the super short day one:</p>  


  
<h2>Mute</h2>  
<!-- /wp:heading -->  

  
<p>In darkness, snapshots of dying stars stay silent. <br /></p>  

