---

title: "FCIC10"
date: 2020-05-20
comments: true
tags: [this-was-meant-to-be-the-future]
---

**PhaethonOfficial:** We are here at the tenth Future of Computational Intelligence conference (#FCIC10). We sponsor a number of PhD students, excited to see their findings!

**ProfSam:** Key note in ten minutes. Still get nervous even now. Wish me luck! #FCIC10

**ElaineEvans:** @ProfSam You’ll be great
<!--more-->
**ProfSam:** @ElaineEvans Thanks for inviting me.

**fr0gk!ller:** @ProfSam I hope u get lost in the desert and die u moran.

**RobinHood:** #FCIC10 is another sham by @PhatheonOfficial. What are they hiding with this fake academic conference?

**ProfSam:** @fr0gk!ller! That’s it, you’re grounded.

**fr0gk!ller:** @ProfSam Hahahahahah lol w/e, hope u get canser and die. 1 of the bad onns

**DeptofCS:** Inspiring to watch @ProfSam give the keynote at #FCIC10 today. Brilliant stuff.

**PhaethonOfficial:** Kicking off #FCIC10 with an interesting speech by @ProfSam. His research helps power a number of our advanced medical tracking programs involving nanobots- keeping you healthy, safe and secure.

**ElaineEvans:** Congratulations @ProfSam! Great talk, a lot to think about there!

**MattPhd:** I’m at #FCIC10. I’m so lucky! Really good day to be here!

**ProfSam:** @ElaineEvans Thanks, thought it went down well.

**DrKradow:** Gutted I can’t be at #FCIC10 but am bed-bound. Flu is the worst.

**Barb45621:** @ProfSam why didn’t you take questions after your talk i have some questions about your research thanks where are you ..

**ElaineEvans:** @DrKradow Oh no, sorry to hear that. Flu is horrible! You can still watch on the live stream: www.tinyurl.co/467p0

**ProfSam:** @Barb45621 Just having a break, to be honest. Need a rest after the excitement. We ran out of time for questions.

**Barb45621:** @ProfSam I want to talk to you where are you I’m in the lobby thanks

**Barb45621:** @ProfSam I have some follow up questions about your research and I wanted to speak to you about them and the future and where its going to go and some suggestions you might find interesting

... : *> run_protocol-46y8m*

**DrKradow:** @ElaineEvans That link doesn’t work, is it on the faculty main page?

**Barb45621:** #FCIC10 Lights have gone????

**DeptofCS:** Apologies for the powercut at #FCIC10. Both backup generators failed at the same time: what are the odds? We are working to get it up and running as soon as possible.

**PhaethonOfficial:** Small delay at #FCIC10 as we work hard to restore power. Dependable renewable energy and increased battery capacity are some of the areas we are working on. @Bryonytheblue is presenting later on using AI to solve the energy crisis. One of the many areas Phaethon is working in.

**RobinHood:** Very convenient of @PhaethonOfficial to have a power cut in the middle of their #FCIC10 conference. Could they be any more suspicious? Look at my channel for more details.

**Barb46521:** @ProfSam Still not appeared i need to speak to you thank you.

**MattPhd:** Power may be out at #FCIC10 but lots of insightful and fascinating conversations to be had! #blessed.

**fr0gk!ller:** LOl youre conference is lame and you are lame tooo @ProfSam @PhaethonOffical why are you even breathing still lollll

**ElaineEvans:** @ProfKradow Ooops sorry, yes, it’s on the main page.

**ElaineEvans:** And we’re back! Up and running again at #FCIC10. Only a small delay, it shouldn’t affect the timings too much. On with the research!

**ElaineEvans:** Oops wrong account! Sorry, everyone! Now you know who is behind the curtain ;)

**DrKradow:** @**ElaineEvans:** Watching now, thank you! Wonders of technology eh?

**ProfSam:** @fr0gk!ller Why did you copy in my employer to this? I’m furious.

**DeptofCS:** And we’re back! Up and running again at #FCIC10. Only a small delay, it shouldn’t affect the timings too much. On with the research!

**fr0gk!ller:** @ProfSam @PhaethonOfficial You mad brooooo?

**BryonytheBlue:** I’m at #FCIC10 and presenting in an hour. Wish me luck. #gulp

**ProfSam:** @fr0gk!ller Yes of course I’m annoyed. It may be funny to you but this is my reputation. I know who you are, you can’t hide behind the stupid username.

**PhaethonOfficial:** @ProfSam @fr0gk!ller We do not appreciate direct threats of violence. We strongly condone them and have a official policy to follow.

**Eoin_88:** @BryonytheBlue Good luck Brie! Don't screw it all up.

**Barb46521:** @ProfSam Why wont you answer questions i have a number of points regarding your research.

**RobinHood:** #FCIC10 shows @PhaethonOfficial to be dangerous liars. I’m going to expose the truth, go to my channel.

**...:** *> protocol 46y8m-- status: failed.*

**fr0gk!ller:** @PhaethonOfficial Choke on my fat dik, world killerz

**ProfSam:** @PhaethonOfficial It’s my son. He’s just doing it to lash out. I’m so so sorry: I’ll take the blame.

**BryonytheBlue:** @Eoin_88 Not sure about that.

**ProfSam:** @Barb46521 Sorry I’ve had some other things to deal with. I will probably be around at lunch if you would like to speak to me then?

**PhaethonOfficial:** @fr0gk!ller We are investigating your IP and there will be consequences.

**DrKradow:** @DeptofCS @ElaineEvans What’s wrong with the live stream?

**fr0gk!ller:** @PhaethonOfficial Oh no the big mega corporatation is coming after the little guy wah wah wha im so scared.

**ElaineEvans:** @BryonytheBlue Good luck

**MattPhd:** Just had a really insightful chat with @ElaineEvans at #FCIC10. Great!

**RobinHood:** Typical bullying from @PhaethonOfficial, silencing @fr0gk!ller for speaking out against them.

**Barb46521:** @ProfSam coward we can’t all be on television

**...:** *>reroute_resave_protocol-46y8n*

**ElaineEvans:** @DrKradow just paused for the break.

**PhaethonOfficial:** Looking forward to our sponsored PhD student @BryonytheBlue presenting her research in predictive energy generation using computer learning.

**fr0gk!ller:** @RobinHood to right, they don’t want to hear it looool. Them and @ProfSam want to shut me up.

**BryonytheBlue:** I can’t do i. I’m going to be sick.

**Barb46521:** Too much waiting around at #FCIC10 and @ProfSam wont even speak to the lesser people disappointing.

**RobinHood:** Typical academic @ProfSam is silencing @fr0gk!ller. Knowledge for those in the ivory tower, not for the masses. I’m here and I’m going to expose #FCIC10 and @PhaethonOfficial for what they really are.

**ElaineEvans:** @BryonytheBlue Are you ok?

**BryonytheBlue:** @ElaineEvans Sorry, I thought that was private.

**ProfSam:** @RobinHood He’s my son. Please don’t jump to conclusions.

**Barb46521:** @ProfSam So rude.

**DrKradow:** @ElaineEvans Thanks, it’s back up

**DeptofCS:** Now at #FCIC10, @BryonytheBlue on stage to present her research on using computer learning for energy modelling.

**RobinHood:** Unveiling a banner now. Expose the lies! @PhaethonOfficial are evil! Watch my Channel.

**DrKradow:** How did a protestor get in?

**Barb46521:** This is a shambles #FCIC10

**ProfSam:** What’s going on?

**DeptofCS:** Sorry about the disruption. The protestor has now been removed. On with @Bryonytheblue’s paper

**...:** *>run_protocol-46y8n*

**RobinHood:** Forcibly removed from #FCIC10 for telling the truth! So much for freedom of speech! Expose the lies @PhaethonOfficial

**fr0gk!ller:** @RobinHood That suuuuuks

**...:** *> Initialising...*

**PhaethonOfficial:** @RobinHood @fr0gk!ller We will be pushing for charges for both of you.

**...:** *> protocol 46y8n-- status: success*

**ProfSam:** ...

**ElaineEvans:** ...

**MattPhd:** ...

**BryonytheBlue:** ...

**DeptofCS:** ...

**Barb46521:** ...

**RobinHood:** ...

**PhaethonOfficial:** ...

**DrKradow:** Is anyone else watching the #FCIC10 live stream? What’s going on?

**DrKradow:** Guys, is anyone else seeing this? The #FCIC10 live stream has gone dark but there’s shapes? Things moving?

**DrKradow:** Honestly, what’s going on? @deptofCS

**DrKradow:** Is everyone ok? #FCIC10

**DrKradow:** @ElaineEvans A bit freaked out now. What’s happening?

**BryonytheBlue:** ...

**ProfSam:** ...

**MattPhd:** ...

**Barb46521:** ...

**RobinHood:** ...

**PhaethonOfficial:** ...

**DeptofCS:** ...

**ElaineEvans:** ...

**...:** *> Protocol complete.*
